Dressing up indigenous hurts Native Americans.

Dressing up on halloween is a tradition. The costumes include everything from fictional characters to traditional clothes of other cultures. For a while there’s been a discussion whether dressing up as certain cultures could be hurtful. For example, a popular debate is whether dressing up as indigenous hurts Native Americans. For most people, dressing up is just about expression and fun, but many Native Americans are expressing their dislike for the use of Native American culture as a form of humor. Is it acceptable dressing up Native American for halloween?

Native Americans have been oppressed since Europeans came to America. American history is filled with discrimination, hatred, and violence against Native Americans whether it's in the form of exclusion, removal, or maltreatment1. The history has had a major effect on Native Americans still living in America today. For example, 27 percent of Native Americans in Minneapolis, Minnesota are living below the poverty line2.

On halloween it's tradition to put on a costume of some kind. These costumes could be fictional; cartoon characters, monsters, and other imaginary creatures, but they can also be inspired by different cultures throughout history. A popular choice amongst the American youth is a category depicting traditional Native American people’s clothes and ornaments. Because of the history and circumstances of indigenous people today, many think this costume is unacceptable. This has sparked a heated debate concerning hate, racism, and differences between cultural appropriation and appreciation.

Dressing up in costumes depicting another culture can be hurtful to the culture if the depiction is not accurate or misrepresenting. "And most recently country singer Kacey Musgraves sparked outrage among the Asian American community; both for combining Indian and Vietnamese traditional costumes, and for hypersexualizing the look."3 In this example Kacay Musgraves had performed in a costume depicting another culture in a misrepresenting way. This could lead to people misunderstanding and being misinformed about the depicted culture. In this case it was the people of the culture who spoke out against it, as it is them who are affected. But one could imagine the people of the culture not being able to speak out against such cultural violations. This could be the case for Native Americans, therefore we need to set boundaries as a collective so that people who can't speak out aren't hurt.

Showing off part of a foreign culture could empower the people of the culture. "“I would be so happy to see other people wear my cultural costume” Nguyen said. “America would not be America without combining cultures. People should not forget — all these people are from all different parts of the world.”"4 Nguyen talks about how she would feel positively if others wear part of her culture and shows it off. She also talks about how combining different cultures is a crucial part of American culture. America’s population is a diverse composition of people and cultures. The act of portraying another culture could be beneficial for the culture. More people could become aware and educated about the culture and in response become less reluctant to recognizing oppression and hatred, and more inclined to helping the people of those cultures. But this is unfortunately only possible on the condition that the cultures are portrayed in an honest way without mocking the people of the culture. 
Which could easily be done wrong without proper education on the cultures being represented, and while maybe not intentional could still cause hurt despite the representation being well meaning.

Another costume sparking outrage on social media is the so called blackface. Blackface as a term or wearing blackface describes the act of a person of non-African descent artificially coloring their face with black or brown paint in order to portray a person of African descent. And because blackface’s origin lies in minstrels shows usually consisting of horrible stereotypes of African Americans in order to entertain a white audience, blackface is recognized by the vast majority to be an act of hate and racism. A famous case of this was the Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who under his reelection campaign had a photo of him come out of himself wearing blackface5. Compared to blackface, Native American costumes aren't recognized as hate and oppression in the same way. No one is making the argument that blackface helps educate the masses about people of color. Contrary to the history of indigenous people, the history of African-Americans and injustice of currently living people of color is more common knowledge. If Native American costumes potential of hurtfulness is to be recognized in the same manner as blackface, knowledge about Native American current day material conditions and brutal history has to become just as common place.

America is a diverse country with many different people and cultures. Dressing up as people from other cultures can be beneficial to the culture, but it comes at major risk of harming already marginalized groups of people. Native Americans have endured a long history of suffering, and their status in modern America is still not on par with white Americans. Given these circumstances, we can conclude that dressing up indigenous could hurt Native Americans. Therefore we need to help each other be inclusive and positive when it comes to representing marginalized cultures like Native Americans.

